README.md, before:

# test_creation

To be filled

## Installation

1. Create a conda envionment using `environment.yml` in the repo:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

2. Activate the newly created conda environment (default name `test-creation`):
```bash
conda activate test-creation
```

3. add `.env` with API key attached:
```bash
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=..." > .env
```

4. Enjoy!

## Usage

### code_analyzer

This is used to analyze and extract information from a downloaded repo.

There is a file containing the example calls. Run:

```console
$ python ./src/code_analyzer/example.py <path-to-your-repo>
```


## Contributing

Interested in contributing? Check out the contributing guidelines. Please note that this project is released with a Code of Conduct. By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

## License

`test_creation` was created by John Shiu, Orix Au Yeung, Tony Shum, Yingzi Jin. It is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

## Credits

`test_creation` was created with [`cookiecutter`](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and the `py-pkgs-cookiecutter` [template](https://github.com/py-pkgs/py-pkgs-cookiecutter).

Commit message:

update `README.md`; update package root init

README.md, after:

# test_creation

To be filled

## Installation

1. Create a conda environment using `environment.yml` in the repo:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

2. Activate the newly created conda environment (default name `test-creation`):
```bash
conda activate test-creation
```

3. In the conda environment, `poetry` should be installed. Use Poetry to install the package:
```bash
poetry install
```

4. add `.env` with API key attached:
```bash
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=..." > .env
```

5. Enjoy! This package comes will an executable `test-creation` and a bunch of scripts. Here are some examples:
```bash
# displays dummy call (for now)
test-creation

# analyze repo
python ./scripts/analyze.py ./checklist/checklist.csv/ ${PATH_TO_YOUR_REPO}
```

## Usage

### code_analyzer

This is used to analyze and extract information from a downloaded repo.

There is a file containing the example calls. Run:

```console
$ python ./src/code_analyzer/example.py <path-to-your-repo>
```


## Contributing

Interested in contributing? Check out the contributing guidelines. Please note that this project is released with a Code of Conduct. By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

## License

`test_creation` was created by John Shiu, Orix Au Yeung, Tony Shum, Yingzi Jin. It is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

## Credits

`test_creation` was created with [`cookiecutter`](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and the `py-pkgs-cookiecutter` [template](https://github.com/py-pkgs/py-pkgs-cookiecutter).
